README.md, before:

# Root Automated Setup

Welcome to the GitHub page for the Root Automated Setup. If you wish to run it, simply head over to [https://ewendc.github.io/root-automated-setup/](https://ewendc.github.io/root-automated-setup/). If you wish to contribute to the project, please read on.

## Reporting an issue

If you have encountered a bug or unexpected behaviour when running the app, or you have run into an obstacle while trying to contribute a translation or code change, then please do not hesitate to raise a new issue [here](https://github.com/EwenDC/root-automated-setup/issues).

## Setting Up the Developer Environment

If you wish to contribute code or translations to this project, you will be required to run it on your local machine. To get started:

1. Download [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) and the [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/) package manager. If you wish to contribute code, it is also recommended that you download [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) to take advantage of the pre-existing workplace configuration.
2. Once you have installed Node and Yarn, [clone](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/cloning-a-repository) the repository to your computer.
3. Open the command line program for your operating system, navigate to the folder you cloned the repository to, and execute the `yarn install` command.

The application is now ready to be run on your computer. To run it, execute the `yarn start` command, then navigate to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) in your web browser.

## Translations

This project was built from the ground up with translation support using [i18next](https://www.i18next.com/), more specifically with the [react-i18next](https://react.i18next.com/) and [i18next-http-backend](https://github.com/i18next/i18next-http-backend) plugins. This means that translations are loaded from a .json file on the webserver at runtime.

### Updating a Translation

All translations are located in the `/public/locales/` folder of the repo. You can learn more about the .json translation file format [here](https://www.i18next.com/misc/json-format#i18next-json-v4). To summarise the basics, the file is formatted as a set of nested translation keys and translation values like this:

```JSON
{
  "deck": {
    "exiles": "Exiles and Partisans",
    "standard": "Standard"
  }
}
```

The translation keys are required for the application to know what translation to use, so you will (mostly\*) not change the keys (or the file's structure in general) when translating. Instead, you will edit the values to match the translated text for the given language. i.e. if the previous example came from `auset-en.json`, this is what that same example would look like in `auset-nl.json` (translation is for demonstration purposes, and is not accurate):

```JSON
{
  "deck": {
    "exiles": "Ballingen en Partizanen",
    "standard": "Standaard"
  }
}
```

Some translated text will include formatting using HTML or HTML-Like tags like so:

```JSON
"forge": {
  "setup": "Player {{count}}, place the Legendary Forge landmark in a clearing. It cannot have a landmark or be adjacent to one. Grab the \"Legendary Forge\" landmark card from the game box and place it next to the board on it's non-setup side.<br/>Based on the suit of the Legendary Forge's clearing, remove the following items from the item supply on the map, and place them on the Legendary Forge card:<p><Fox/>: <Sword/> <Sword/> <Crossbow/> <Hammer/></p><p><Mouse/>: <Bag/> <Bag/> <Tea/> <Tea/></p><p><Rabbit/>: <Boot/> <Boot/> <Coin/> <Coin/></p>"
},
```

When translating, please edit the text around these tags, but not the tags themselves, like so:

```JSON
"forge": {
  "setup": "Speler {{count}}, plaats het Legendary Forge-oriëntatiepunt op een open plek. Het mag geen oriëntatiepunt hebben of er aan grenzen. Pak de oriëntatiepuntkaart \"Legendarische Smederij\" uit de doos en plaats deze naast het bord op de niet-opgezette kant.<br/>Gebaseerd op de kleur van de ontruiming van de Legendary Forge, verwijder je de volgende items uit de itemvoorraad op de kaart en plaats ze op de Legendary Forge-kaart:<p><Fox/>: <Sword/> <Sword/> <Crossbow/> <Hammer/></p><p><Mouse/>: <Bag/> <Bag/> <Tea/> <Tea/></p><p><Rabbit/>: <Boot/> <Boot/> <Coin/> <Coin/></p>"
},
```

Some translated text will include substitutions, demoted by double curly braces like so:

```JSON
"setUpMapLandmark": {
  "subtitle": "Set up the {{landmark}}"
},
```

When translating, place the substitution (as-is) in the correct place in your text like so:

```JSON
"setUpMapLandmark": {
  "subtitle": "Het {{landmark}} instellen"
},
```

If the substitution is `{{count}}`, that represents a contextual number for the text. You can provide plural forms of the text for your language in separate keys, even if the English translation does not include those keys. See the [i18next documentation](https://www.i18next.com/translation-function/plurals) for more information.<br/>
\*This is the only situation in which you will modify the structure/keys of the translation file

### Testing a Translation

Open the command line program for your operating system and navigate to the folder you cloned this repository to. Execute the `yarn start` command, then navigate to [http://localhost:3000?lng=en](http://localhost:3000?lng=en) (changing en to your language code). When you make changes and save the .json translation file, the webpage should refresh with your changes reflected in the app.

### Adding a New Language

To add a new language translation, simply copy and paste the `auset-en.json` file located in the `/public/locales/` folder of the repo. Rename your new file to match the format of `auset-`[[Two letter language code]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_639-1_codes)`.json`. Open the file and change any of the English strings, then run the app and navigate to [http://localhost:3000?lng=en](http://localhost:3000?lng=en) (changing en to your language code). You should see your changes reflected in the app text.

### Translation Standards

1. As much as possible, please copy the punctuation of the original English text. (e.g. If a sentence ends without a full stop, don't include a full stop in your translation, and vice-versa).
2. Match the translation of your language’s official Root localization where possible (this includes the name of cards in instances where they are referenced in text).

## Adding content

This app was designed from the ground up to easily support the addition of new Root content without any code changes (with the obvious exception of new types of content, e.g. the hirelings in the marauder expansion). The game content is loaded from a file called [content.json](https://github.com/EwenDC/root-automated-setup/blob/main/src/content.json), which contains a list of all expansions, and what components are included in each expansion. I don't currently have a formal specification for this file format, but you should be able to add new content following the example of how existing content is defined.

I am willing to accept contributions for fan-made print-and-play content, provided that there is enough demand from users to do so. Remember, this app is designed specifically for the physical game, so included fan-made content would have to also have a decent amount of people, who did not help create it, who have printed it off and use it in their physical games. Content that only exists on Tabletop Simulator would not be eligible to be added. If fan-made content is added in the future, it will most likely be hidden by default behind a checkbox on the expansion selection screen.

### Content Text

All content text is defined within the translation files, using dynamic key lookup based on the code you assigned to the component. For example, if you define the Lake map like so:

```JSON
"underworld": {
  "base": false,
  "image": "boxes/underworld.png",
  "maps": {
    "lake": {
      "landmark": "ferry",
      "image": "maps/lake.png"
    }
  }
},
```

The app will attempt to load all relevant text for this map from the `map.lake` key, which you would define in `auset-en.json` like so:

```JSON
"map": {
  "lake": {
    "name": "Lake",
    "setupTitle": "Set up the Lake Map",
    "setup": "<i>1.</i> Grab the Lake/Mountain map board from the game box and place it down with the Lake side facing up.<br/><i>2.</i> Collect the 12 suit markers, flip them face down, and shuffle them, then place one on each clearing.<br/><i>3.</i> Place a ruin in each slot on the map marked with an \"R\" <i>(four in total)</i>.<br/><i>4.</i> Place these items on the matching spaces of the item supply near the top of the map: 2 <Boot/>, 2 <Bag/>, 1 <Crossbow/>, 1 <Hammer/>, 2 <Sword/>, 2 <Tea/>, 2 <Coin/>.<br/><i>5.</i> Place the two dice near the map.",
    "landmarkSetup": "Place the Ferry piece in the corner clearing that is also a coastal clearing. If you have \"The Ferry\" landmark card, take it from the game box and place it next to the board on it's non-setup side."
  },
},
```

### Content Images

All images for the content are loaded dynamically at run-time on the browser. All component images are located within the [/public/images](https://github.com/EwenDC/root-automated-setup/tree/main/public/images) folder of the repository. This path is preappened to the path you define in content.json, so don't include `public/images/` or `images/` in your path. While all content should have an attached image, all images are actually optional and can be excluded from the content definition, in which case a fallback image will be displayed. (Please only use this fallback for development, content will not be added to the production build without an associated image unless the circumstances are extenuating).

All images used in the app are sourced from official sources, including the [Leder Games Website](https://ledergames.com/pages/resources) and [Board Game Geek](https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/237182/root) (specifically images uploaded by Leder Games employees and ex-employees), and also from semi-official sources including the [Tabletop Simulator Mod](https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/237182/root) (in the case where we need an image that is printed on a component). When adding images for components, please try to maintain the same image quality standards as the existing content images (fan made content images are excepted). Save your images in a square (1:1) aspect ratio, at a resolution no greater than 512x512, as PNG files with an 8-bit Bit Depth and the Octree Quantization algorithm, with a Dithering level of 0 and Transparency threshold of 128. This is to ensure the images have a minimal file size while maintiaing transparency support, with an acceptable quality level, while supporting devices that do not support the webp image format.

## Contributing Code

Over on the [issues page](https://github.com/EwenDC/root-automated-setup/issues) I have already flagged some potential functionality that can be added to the app. You can feel free to have a crack at implementing one of them, or any other feature or minor fix you can think of. When you are done, fork this repository then submit your changes as a [pull request](https://github.com/EwenDC/root-automated-setup/pulls).

### Code Standards

1. Before submitting code for review, please ensure it has been formatted using [Prettier](https://prettier.io/). If you are using Visual Studio Code, and you have installed the workspace recommended Prettier editor extension, then this should happen automatically whenever you save a file.
2. As of me writing this, there are currently no automated tests set up for this project, but I would like to add them in the future. When submitting a change, please ensure that you maintain or raise the current level of test coverage.

### Frameworks

This project was bootstrapped with [Create React App](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app), using the [Redux](https://redux.js.org/) and [Redux Toolkit](https://redux-toolkit.js.org/) template. You can learn more in the [Create React App documentation](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/getting-started). To learn React, check out the [React documentation](https://reactjs.org/).

## Available Scripts

In the project directory, you can run:

### `yarn start`

Runs the app in the development mode. Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view it in the browser. The page will reload if you make edits. You will also see any lint errors in the console.

### `yarn test`

Launches the test runner in the interactive watch mode. See the Create React App documentation about [running tests](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/running-tests) for more information.

### `yarn build`

Builds the app for production to the `build` folder. It correctly bundles React in production mode and optimizes the build for the best performance (minifying it and adding hashes to the filenames).

### `yarn deploy`

Builds the app for production to the `build` folder, then deploys it to GitHub pages. It is unlikely that you will execute this command yourself, unless you host your own version of the app.

## License

Unless covered under an existing license, all work included in this repository is licensed under [Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/). "Root", images of Root components, and art or text taken from Root, are the intellectual property of [Leder Games](https://ledergames.com/) and fall under the license provisions set forward by them. This repository includes icons taken from [Font Awesome Free](https://github.com/FortAwesome/Font-Awesome), and fall under their [CC BY 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/) License.

Commit message:

Fixed layout errors caused by longer translations
Fixed last remaining layout errors in French translation. Translated "Root Automated Setup" in credits. Did some other minor formatting clean-up.
Added more information about text substitutions to Readme.

README.md, after:

# Root Automated Setup

Welcome to the GitHub page for the Root Automated Setup. If you wish to run it, simply head over to [https://ewendc.github.io/root-automated-setup/](https://ewendc.github.io/root-automated-setup/). If you wish to contribute to the project, please read on.

## Reporting an issue

If you have encountered a bug or unexpected behaviour when running the app, or you have run into an obstacle while trying to contribute a translation or code change, then please do not hesitate to raise a new issue [here](https://github.com/EwenDC/root-automated-setup/issues).

## Setting Up the Developer Environment

If you wish to contribute code or translations to this project, you will be required to run it on your local machine. To get started:

1. Download [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) and the [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/) package manager. If you wish to contribute code, it is also recommended that you download [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) to take advantage of the pre-existing workplace configuration.
2. Once you have installed Node and Yarn, [clone](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/cloning-a-repository) the repository to your computer.
3. Open the command line program for your operating system, navigate to the folder you cloned the repository to, and execute the `yarn install` command.

The application is now ready to be run on your computer. To run it, execute the `yarn start` command, then navigate to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) in your web browser.

## Translations

This project was built from the ground up with translation support using [i18next](https://www.i18next.com/), more specifically with the [react-i18next](https://react.i18next.com/) and [i18next-http-backend](https://github.com/i18next/i18next-http-backend) plugins. This means that translations are loaded from a .json file on the webserver at runtime.

### Updating a Translation

All translations are located in the `/public/locales/` folder of the repo. You can learn more about the .json translation file format [here](https://www.i18next.com/misc/json-format#i18next-json-v4). To summarise the basics, the file is formatted as a set of nested translation keys and translation values like this:

```JSON
{
  "deck": {
    "exiles": "Exiles and Partisans",
    "standard": "Standard"
  }
}
```

The translation keys are required for the application to know what translation to use, so you will (mostly\*) not change the keys (or the file's structure in general) when translating. Instead, you will edit the values to match the translated text for the given language. i.e. if the previous example came from `auset-en.json`, this is what that same example would look like in `auset-nl.json` (translation is for demonstration purposes, and is not accurate):

```JSON
{
  "deck": {
    "exiles": "Ballingen en Partizanen",
    "standard": "Standaard"
  }
}
```

Some translated text will include formatting using HTML or HTML-Like tags like so:

```JSON
"forge": {
  "setup": "Player {{count}}, place the Legendary Forge landmark in a clearing. It cannot have a landmark or be adjacent to one. Grab the \"Legendary Forge\" landmark card from the game box and place it next to the board on it's non-setup side.<br/>Based on the suit of the Legendary Forge's clearing, remove the following items from the item supply on the map, and place them on the Legendary Forge card:<p><Fox/>: <Sword/> <Sword/> <Crossbow/> <Hammer/></p><p><Mouse/>: <Bag/> <Bag/> <Tea/> <Tea/></p><p><Rabbit/>: <Boot/> <Boot/> <Coin/> <Coin/></p>"
},
```

When translating, please edit the text around these tags, but not the tags themselves, like so:

```JSON
"forge": {
  "setup": "Speler {{count}}, plaats het Legendary Forge-oriëntatiepunt op een open plek. Het mag geen oriëntatiepunt hebben of er aan grenzen. Pak de oriëntatiepuntkaart \"Legendarische Smederij\" uit de doos en plaats deze naast het bord op de niet-opgezette kant.<br/>Gebaseerd op de kleur van de ontruiming van de Legendary Forge, verwijder je de volgende items uit de itemvoorraad op de kaart en plaats ze op de Legendary Forge-kaart:<p><Fox/>: <Sword/> <Sword/> <Crossbow/> <Hammer/></p><p><Mouse/>: <Bag/> <Bag/> <Tea/> <Tea/></p><p><Rabbit/>: <Boot/> <Boot/> <Coin/> <Coin/></p>"
},
```

Some translated text will include substitutions, demoted by double curly braces like so:

```JSON
"setUpMapLandmark": {
  "subtitle": "Set up the {{landmark}}"
},
```

When translating, place the substitution (as-is) in the correct place in your text like so:

```JSON
"setUpMapLandmark": {
  "subtitle": "Het {{landmark}} instellen"
},
```

If the substitution is `{{count}}`, that represents a contextual number for the text. You can provide plural forms of the text for your language in separate keys, even if the English translation does not include those keys. See the [i18next documentation](https://www.i18next.com/translation-function/plurals) for more information.<br/>
\*This is the only situation in which you will modify the structure/keys of the translation file

### Testing a Translation

Open the command line program for your operating system and navigate to the folder you cloned this repository to. Execute the `yarn start` command, then navigate to [http://localhost:3000?lng=en](http://localhost:3000?lng=en) (changing en to your language code). When you make changes and save the .json translation file, the webpage should refresh with your changes reflected in the app.

### Adding a New Language

To add a new language translation, simply copy and paste the `auset-en.json` file located in the `/public/locales/` folder of the repo. Rename your new file to match the format of `auset-`[[Two letter language code]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_639-1_codes)`.json`. Open the file and change any of the English strings, then run the app and navigate to [http://localhost:3000?lng=en](http://localhost:3000?lng=en) (changing en to your language code). You should see your changes reflected in the app text.

### Translation Standards

1. As much as possible, please copy the punctuation of the original English text. (e.g. If a sentence ends without a full stop, don't include a full stop in your translation, and vice-versa).
2. Match the translation of your language’s official Root localization where possible (this includes the name of cards in instances where they are referenced in text).

## Adding content

This app was designed from the ground up to easily support the addition of new Root content without any code changes (with the obvious exception of new types of content, e.g. the hirelings in the marauder expansion). The game content is loaded from a file called [content.json](https://github.com/EwenDC/root-automated-setup/blob/main/src/content.json), which contains a list of all expansions, and what components are included in each expansion. I don't currently have a formal specification for this file format, but you should be able to add new content following the example of how existing content is defined.

I am willing to accept contributions for fan-made print-and-play content, provided that there is enough demand from users to do so. Remember, this app is designed specifically for the physical game, so included fan-made content would have to also have a decent amount of people, who did not help create it, who have printed it off and use it in their physical games. Content that only exists on Tabletop Simulator would not be eligible to be added. If fan-made content is added in the future, it will most likely be hidden by default behind a checkbox on the expansion selection screen.

### Content Text

All content text is defined within the translation files, using dynamic key lookup based on the code you assigned to the component. For example, if you define the Lake map like so:

```JSON
"underworld": {
  "base": false,
  "image": "boxes/underworld.png",
  "maps": {
    "lake": {
      "landmark": "ferry",
      "image": "maps/lake.png"
    }
  }
},
```

The app will attempt to load all relevant text for this map from the `map.lake` key, which you would define in `auset-en.json` like so:

```JSON
"map": {
  "lake": {
    "name": "Lake",
    "setupTitle": "Set up the Lake Map",
    "setup": "<i>1.</i> Grab the Lake/Mountain map board from the game box and place it down with the Lake side facing up.<br/><i>2.</i> Collect the 12 suit markers, flip them face down, and shuffle them, then place one on each clearing.<br/><i>3.</i> Place a ruin in each slot on the map marked with an \"R\" <i>(four in total)</i>.<br/><i>4.</i> Place these items on the matching spaces of the item supply near the top of the map: 2 <Boot/>, 2 <Bag/>, 1 <Crossbow/>, 1 <Hammer/>, 2 <Sword/>, 2 <Tea/>, 2 <Coin/>.<br/><i>5.</i> Place the two dice near the map.",
    "landmarkSetup": "Place the Ferry piece in the corner clearing that is also a coastal clearing. If you have \"The Ferry\" landmark card, take it from the game box and place it next to the board on it's non-setup side."
  },
},
```

Most text you define (with the exception of title/subtitle text) can support basic HTML formatting. More information is avaliable in the [react-i18next documentation](https://react.i18next.com/latest/trans-component#usage-with-simple-html-elements-like-less-than-br-greater-than-and-others-v10.4.0). The following list of custom tags are also supported for the purpose of displaying inline suit and item icons:

- `<Fox/>`
- `<Mouse/>`
- `<Rabbit/>`
- `<Bag/>`
- `<Boot/>`
- `<Coin/>`
- `<Crossbow/>`
- `<Hammer/>`
- `<Sword/>`
- `<Tea/>`
- `<Torch/>`

### Content Images

All images for the content are loaded dynamically at run-time on the browser. All component images are located within the [/public/images](https://github.com/EwenDC/root-automated-setup/tree/main/public/images) folder of the repository. This path is preappened to the path you define in content.json, so don't include `public/images/` or `images/` in your path. While all content should have an attached image, all images are actually optional and can be excluded from the content definition, in which case a fallback image will be displayed. (Please only use this fallback for development, content will not be added to the production build without an associated image unless the circumstances are extenuating).

All images used in the app are sourced from official sources, including the [Leder Games Website](https://ledergames.com/pages/resources) and [Board Game Geek](https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/237182/root) (specifically images uploaded by Leder Games employees and ex-employees), and also from semi-official sources including the [Tabletop Simulator Mod](https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/237182/root) (in the case where we need an image that is printed on a component). When adding images for components, please try to maintain the same image quality standards as the existing content images (fan made content images are excepted). Save your images in a square (1:1) aspect ratio, at a resolution no greater than 512x512, as PNG files with an 8-bit Bit Depth and the Octree Quantization algorithm, with a Dithering level of 0 and Transparency threshold of 128. This is to ensure the images have a minimal file size while maintiaing transparency support, with an acceptable quality level, while supporting devices that do not support the webp image format.

## Contributing Code

Over on the [issues page](https://github.com/EwenDC/root-automated-setup/issues) I have already flagged some potential functionality that can be added to the app. You can feel free to have a crack at implementing one of them, or any other feature or minor fix you can think of. When you are done, fork this repository then submit your changes as a [pull request](https://github.com/EwenDC/root-automated-setup/pulls).

### Code Standards

1. Before submitting code for review, please ensure it has been formatted using [Prettier](https://prettier.io/). If you are using Visual Studio Code, and you have installed the workspace recommended Prettier editor extension, then this should happen automatically whenever you save a file.
2. As of me writing this, there are currently no automated tests set up for this project, but I would like to add them in the future. When submitting a change, please ensure that you maintain or raise the current level of test coverage.

### Frameworks

This project was bootstrapped with [Create React App](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app), using the [Redux](https://redux.js.org/) and [Redux Toolkit](https://redux-toolkit.js.org/) template. You can learn more in the [Create React App documentation](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/getting-started). To learn React, check out the [React documentation](https://reactjs.org/).

## Available Scripts

In the project directory, you can run:

### `yarn start`

Runs the app in the development mode. Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view it in the browser. The page will reload if you make edits. You will also see any lint errors in the console.

### `yarn test`

Launches the test runner in the interactive watch mode. See the Create React App documentation about [running tests](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/running-tests) for more information.

### `yarn build`

Builds the app for production to the `build` folder. It correctly bundles React in production mode and optimizes the build for the best performance (minifying it and adding hashes to the filenames).

### `yarn deploy`

Builds the app for production to the `build` folder, then deploys it to GitHub pages. It is unlikely that you will execute this command yourself, unless you host your own version of the app.

## License

Unless covered under an existing license, all work included in this repository is licensed under [Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/). "Root", images of Root components, and art or text taken from Root, are the intellectual property of [Leder Games](https://ledergames.com/) and fall under the license provisions set forward by them. This repository includes icons taken from [Font Awesome Free](https://github.com/FortAwesome/Font-Awesome), and fall under their [CC BY 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/) License.
